We study opinion formation games based on the famous model proposed by Friedkin
and Johsen.  In today's huge social networks the assumption that in each round
all agents update their opinions by taking into account the opinions of
\emph{all} their friends could be unrealistic. Therefore, we assume that in
each round each agent gets to meet with only one (uniformly random) friend of
hers.  Specifically, we define an opinion formation game, where at round $t$,
agent $i$ with intrinsic opinion $s_i\in[0,1]$ and expressed opinion $x_i(t)
\in[0,1]$ meets a random neighbor $j$ with opinion $x_j(t)$ and suffers cost
that is a convex combination of $(x_i(t) - s_i)^2$ and $(x_i(t) - x_j(t))^2$.

For a dynamics in the above setting to be considered as natural it must be
simple, converge to the equilibrium $x^*$, and perhaps most importantly, it
must be a reasonable choice for selfish agents.  In this work we show that
\emph{fictitious play}, is a natural dynamics for the above game.  We prove
that, after $O(1/\eps^2)$ rounds, the opinion vector is within error $\eps$  of
the equilibrium. Moreover, we show that fictitious play admits no-regret and
thus, is a reasonable algorithm for agents to implement.

The classical Friedkin-Johsen dynamics converges to the equilibrium within
error $\eps$ after only $O(\log(1/\eps))$ rounds whereas in our setting
fictitious play needs $\widetilde{O}(1/\eps^2)$ rounds. A natural question is
whether there exists a natural dynamics for our problem with better rate of
convergence.  To answer this question we show that from \emph{no-regret}
dynamics in our setting, we can construct algorithms that estimate the mean of
Bernoulli random variables.  By using information theoretic sample complexity
lower bound techniques from statistics we show that no-regret algorithms are
unlikely to converge with less than $O(1/\eps)$ rounds. Interestingly, the
considerably worse convergence rate is not an inherent characteristic of our
setting but rather of the class of no-regret dynamics since we show that, in
general, there exists a dynamics that only needs $O(\log(1/\eps)^2)$ rounds in
our setting, resembling the convergence rate of the original Friedkin-Johsen
model.
